Cards in flows | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Cards in flows
                Each card represents one specific step in a flow. Within a card, there are input and output fields. 
Input fields accept values. 
Output fields are the values produced by that card. Other subsequent cards can then use these fields as input. 
Configure a connection to the third-party application and select any relevant 
Options
. This is required before you can access the 
Input
 and 
Output
 fields of an action card.
The ability for an action card to accept inputs and then return a different output is one of the most powerful features of Workflows. You can chain multiple cards together and map outputs to inputs. This enables you to build flows that transform data, use logic to decide on next steps, or perform follow-up actions using that data.
Input fields
 The input field values determine how the action or function card should proceed. 
For example, the 
Gmail
Send Email
 card has input fields for 
To
, 
Subject
 and 
Body
. For the text 
Replace
 function, there are input fields for the string to 
look in
, what text to 
look for
, and what text to 
replace with
.
Output fields
A flow assigns values to the output fields after running an event, action, or function. 
For example, the text 
Replace
 function card has a field called 
result text
 that contains the new text string composed after the function makes the replacements. For the 
New Issue
 event in 
Jira
, there's an output for the 
Issue ID
 of the newly created issue.
A key feature of 
Okta Workflows
 is this ability to map the output field from one card to the input field of another card. 
For example, you can drag the 
Email Address
 output from a 
Marketo
Read Lead
 action card and drop it onto the input field of an 
Office 365 Mail
Send Email
 action card. Every time the flow executes, the flow uses the email address for that specific customer  as the destination address for the email.
Other card options
The bottom of each card has other buttons to set or modify options. Different cards can have a selection of the following choices:
Help
: Click the 
 icon to view card-specific help content.
Run this card
: Allows you to provide sample input values and see the resulting output. This option is available only for action and function cards.
Schedule Options
: Control how often to check for new data or run the flow. This option is available only for non-webhook application events and scheduled events.
Endpoint Settings
: Choose a security level and provide the URLs used to invoke the endpoint. This option is available only for 
API Endpoint
 event cards.
Filter Fields
: Filter the view to only display fields that match the filter text. This option is useful for cards with many fields, such as a 
Salesforce
 record.
Duplicate
: Creates an exact duplicate of the current card and adds it to the flow. This option is useful for flows that need the same card with slightly different fields, or for a card with many edited options that you don't want  to recreate.
There's also a gear icon containing 
Other options
:
Edit card
: In customize mode, you can rename or reorder fields, or even rename the card. See 
Customize a card
.
Choose fields
: Set which fields appear on the card. This is useful for cards that have possibly hundreds of fields, but only a few that you need.
Run When
: Set your event to trigger once for all new records, once for each new record, or only when no new records are found. This option is available only for application events. See 
Set data exchange options
.
Error handling
: Show error options, such as automatic retry or running an error handling flow if the card fails. See 
Set error handling for cards in flows
.
Save cards and execute flows
After you alter any card settings, click 
Save
  at the top of the Flow builder page to save all changes in the flow. Alternatively, you can use the keyboard shortcut CTRL+S (Windows) or ⌘+S (macOS) to perform this action.
Click 
Run
  at the top of the Flow builder page to run your updated flow. When you run an updated flow, any pending changes you've made to the cards in the flow are automatically saved. You can also use the keyboard shortcut CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER (Windows) or ⌘+SHIFT+ENTER (macOS) to run the flow.
Related topics
Events
Action and function cards
Fields
Note cards
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback