Access Control | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Access Control
Role-based access control (RBAC) is a fundamental component of secure access management.
RBAC provides you with a structured and scalable set of controls to manage user access to 
Okta Workflows
 resources, granting only the necessary permission levels.
Benefits
There are many advantages to implementing RBAC in 
Okta Workflows
:
Granular access control
RBAC allows you to define and enforce granular access controls based on the roles users have within your organization. This ensures that users can access only the resources and information necessary for their specific roles and responsibilities.
Simplified management
RBAC simplifies access management by letting you group users based on their roles. Instead of managing individual permissions for each user, a 
Workflows Administrator
 can assign and revoke access at the role level. As the access control feature is synced with Okta 
Universal Directory
, this simplifies changes in personnel, organizational structure, or access requirements. This adaptability ensures that access permissions remain accurate and aligned with the needs of the organization.
Reduced risk of unauthorized access
By assigning roles with specific permissions, organizations ensure that users can only perform the actions and access the data relevant to their job functions. This reduces the chances of intentional or accidental misuse of critical systems or sensitive information.
Enhanced security
RBAC enhances security by limiting the impact of potential security incidents. If a bad actor compromises an account, they only have the limited permissions associated with that user's role, rather than gaining full access to 
Okta Workflows
 resources or the 
Okta
 org.
Compliance and auditing
Many regulatory processes and industry standards require organizations to implement proper access controls. RBAC helps you to meet compliance requirements by providing a structured approach to managing access. In addition, you facilitate auditing processes by providing read-only access roles. This allows your organization to demonstrate best practices in controlling access to sensitive information.
Next steps
Get started with RBAC
Access control example
Roles and permissions
Manage Workflows roles
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback