Agent Studio | Workato Docs
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
Get a trial
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
日本語
Get a trial
Orchestrate documentation
Workflow apps
Process automation
Insights
Workbot
Data orchestration
API platform
Event streams
Connectivity
Agentic documentation
Agentic
Agent Studio
Agent Studio use cases
Agent Studio security
Explore features
Getting started
Recipe design
AI features
Community library
Accessing On-prem
Troubleshooting
Organization & workspaces
Data & security
Lifecycle & operations
Connector SDK
Developer API
Embedded
Embedded API
Accelerators
#
Agent Studio
Agent Studio enables you to build and leverage interactive AI agents, known as genies, for deployment within your organization. Genies dynamically perform actions and call workflows. Genies understand the context of each scenario and execute pre-defined skills to achieve a goal you set.
Genies
You can use Agent Studio to create and manage genies without code by exposing an agentic modular framework. This enables you to natively extend genies to your own systems for integration with your existing infrastructure.
IT genie
FEATURE AVAILABILITY
Genies are available to all users in the US datacenter. Contact your Customer Success representative if you're interested in using genies.
#
Genies key components
Genies consist of four key components that power its contextual understanding and skill set:
#
AI
AI forms the brain of your genie, determining interactions with your users, and deciding which skills to use to execute an action. Genies automatically come with Workato's native large language model (LLM) but can be updated to use other models based on your requirements.
The genie's AI component uses advanced natural language processing and machine learning algorithms to provide the following capabilities:
Interpret user requests and queries
Analyze context and available information
Make decisions to determine which skills to use
Generate human-like responses
Continuously learn and improve based on interactions
#
Interaction layer
The interaction layer is the genie component visibly exposed to your end users. The interaction layer can be integrated with platforms where your organization works, such as Slack, Microsoft Teams, custom chatbots developed within internal systems. The interaction layer includes the following capabilities:
A user-friendly interface for employees to interact with the genie
Multiple communication channels to fit your organization's workflow
Customizable UI elements to match your brand and user experience preferences
Real-time communication between users and the genie
#
Knowledge base
The knowledge base component serves as the genie's memory. You can provide the knowledge base with relevant context on your company's policies or access to historical data that grounds the behavior of the genie. The genie's behavior is further tailored by information it gleans from the knowledge bases you provide it access to. The knowledge base component provides the following capabilities:
Stores and organizes company-specific information
Provides quick access to relevant data for informed decision-making
Can be updated in real-time to ensure the genie always has the most current information
Helps maintain consistency in Genie responses and actions across the organization
#
Skills
The skills component provides the genie with tools that allow it to interact with various applications and systems. Skills define the capabilities of the genie and can be customized to suit your organization's specific requirements. Genies support skills across most applications and allows access to your workflows as custom skills. The skills component provides the following capabilities:
Add or modify skill sets related to apps and data sources
Create customized skills
IT genie skills
#
Genies features
Genies provide the following abilities:
#
Domain expertise
Genies possess an intricate understanding of your organization's systems and processes to navigate and execute tasks effectively. This expertise is built through the following processes:
Integration with existing systems and databases
Continuous learning from user interactions and feedback
#
Reasoning ability
Genies are equipped with a sophisticated reasoning engine that interprets and executes both straightforward and complex directives. Your genie's reasoning includes the following capabilities:
Natural language understanding to interpret user intentions
Contextual analysis to determine the most appropriate course of action
Logical inference to make decisions based on available information
Ability to handle multi-step tasks and complex workflows
#
Security and authentication
Genies authenticate users in real-time to ensure actions are taken securely and appropriately, with necessary approvals. The security and authentication feature provides the following capabilities:
Integration with your existing authentication systems
Role-based access control (RBAC)
Audit trails for all actions taken
Compliance with your organization's security policies
#
Responsible action
Genies execute actions strictly within the bounds of delegated abilities, with options to easily adjust (upskill or downskill) the capabilities of the genie as required. Responsive action includes the following capabilities:
Clear definition of permitted actions for the genie
Ability to set approval workflows for critical actions
Easy-to-use interface for administrators to modify genie capabilities
#
Continuous learning
Genies perpetually refine their knowledge and performance through interactions and added skills. Continuous learning is achieved through the following processes:
Regular updates to the knowledge base
Feedback loops that incorporate user input
Native ability to adapt to changing organizational requirements and processes
#
Enterprise-grade security features
Genies operate within a secure framework that protects data, enforces governance, and ensures compliance. This framework provides the following capabilities:
User scoped connections
: Genies authenticate actions at runtime to support role-based access and full auditing abilities.
Data isolation and encryption
: Genies ensure customer data is kept separate and secure.
Responsible AI operations
: Genies restrict actions to the skills provided to maintain ethical standards.
Robust governance and transparency
: Genies provide detailed logs and operational dashboards for enhanced observability and governance to ensure accountability and precision within your workflows.
←
Roles and permissions
Genies configuration
→
Last updated:
3/27/2025, 2:51:16 PM
On this page
Genies key components
Genies features
Enterprise-grade security features
Product
How it works
Pricing
What's New
Recipes
Security
Documentation
Product blog
Solutions
HR
Sales
Marketing
Finance
Support
IT
Product (Embed)
Higher Ed
Revenue Operations
Resources
Docs
Customer Success
Content Library
Systematic Community
Workato for Slack
Workato for Microsoft Teams
Use cases
Product Led Sales
Order to Cash
Employee Onboarding
Embedded Integrations
Enterprise iPaaS
IT Help Desk
All use cases >
Applications
Salesforce
Slack
Marketo
NetSuite
ServiceNow
Workday
All Apps >
Company
About us
Customers
Blog
Press
Careers
Partners
Events
© Workato 2025
Privacy
Legal
Sitemap
Contact: (844) 469-6752
The trademarks WORKATO®, WORKBOT® and WORK JAM® are registered in U.S. Patent & Trademark Office to Workato,
Inc.