If/Else | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
If/Else
Use an If/Else conditional statement to determine the steps that should be followed by the flow.
When the condition you specify is evaluated, depending on whether the result is true or false, the flow follows a specific sub-path of action and function cards prior to returning optional outputs, and then continues with the rest of the flow.
The If/Else card has three sections:
Section
Definition
Condition
Specifies the comparison (a true/false statement)
Branches
Specifies the Actions and Functions to execute based on the result of the condition.
Outputs (optional)
Specifies the optional Outputs for the If/Else card, after the proper path has run.
Condition: Defining a Comparison Statement on an If/Else Card
Element
Definition
value a
Value to be compared.
comparison
Comparison to make (see 
Table of Relational Operators
).
value b
Value to compare against.
Click 
Done
 to advance to the next step, then click on the condition to return to this step.
Be sure to set the type of 
value a
 and 
value b
 to reflect how you would like the comparison to be done. For example, the operator 
greater than
 compares numbers based on numeric value but text based on alphabetical sort order. So the number comparison 
80 > 9
 is true, but the text comparison 
"80" > "9"
 is false.
Table of Relational Operators
Operator
Use Case
 equal to
Compare two texts, numbers, dates or true/false to see if they have the same value.
 not equal to
Compare two texts, numbers, dates or true/false to see if they have different values.
greater than or equal
Compare two texts, numbers or dates to see if the first has the same or greater value than the second.
 less than or equal
Compare two texts, numbers or dates to see if the first has the same or lesser value than the second.
greater than
Compare two texts, numbers or dates to see if the first has a greater value than the second.
less than
Compare two texts, numbers or dates to see if the first has a lesser value than the second.
 a multiple of
Compare two numbers to see if value a is an exact multiple of value b. For example, 12, 0 and -4 are all multiples of 4, but 2, 3 and 7 are not.
in
Compare two texts to see if value a is a part of value b. For example, "test" is in "this is a test", but there is no "i" in "team".
not in
 Compare two texts to see if value a is not part of value b. 
has key
When value a is an object and value b is text, tests to see if the object has a key with the specified name. For example, true if value a is {"test":123} and value b is "test".
doesn't have key
When value a is an object and value b is text, tests to see if the object does not have a key with the specified name.
is empty
 Checks to see if value a is empty; ignores value b. What defines "empty" varies by type. Note: This operator works only for text and objects.
is not empty
Checks to see if value a is not empty. Note: This operator works only for text and objects.
Branches: Defining Branch Paths on an If/Else Card
You can specify the Action and Function cards to execute based on the outcome of the comparison. The two branching paths are shown when you click 
Done
 after defining the Condition.
Actions and Functions within the upper orange container in the Branches tab are executed in sequential order if the conditional statement provided by the Input Fields returns true. Likewise, Actions and Functions within the lower blue container are executed in sequential order if the conditional statement returns false.
You can include any number of Actions within each container. It is also possible to nest an If/Else within another If/Else, which can enable you to create many different branching paths, all with their own set of Actions.
Output: Adding Outputs to an If/Else Step
The Create Outputs button allows you to add optional Output fields to the entire If/Else step. Their values are assigned after either of the two branches has completed, before moving onto the next action or function in the flow.
To add a new output field:
Click 
Create outputs
 if the box is not visible at the right.
Type the desired name in the 
Outputs
 box at the right.
Choose the proper type (for example, Text or Number) for the output.
Provide the value for the output for the case where the true branch was run and for the case where the false branch was run. Drag/drop from the corresponding branch or click inside the box to choose from the outputs of the steps that ran within that branch.
Related topics
Functions
Workflow elements
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback