Data orchestration | Workato Docs
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
Get a trial
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
日本語
Get a trial
Orchestrate documentation
Workflow apps
Process automation
Insights
Workbot
Data orchestration
API platform
Event streams
Connectivity
Agentic documentation
Agentic
Agent Studio
Agent Studio use cases
Agent Studio security
Explore features
Getting started
Recipe design
AI features
Community library
Accessing On-prem
Troubleshooting
Organization & workspaces
Data & security
Lifecycle & operations
Connector SDK
Developer API
Embedded
Embedded API
Accelerators
#
Data orchestration
FEATURE AVAILABILITY
Data orchestration is included in specific pricing plans for direct customers and is available to Embedded partners and their end customers for an additional fee. Refer to your pricing plan and contract to learn more.
Workato offers a powerful and flexible platform for
data orchestration
(opens new window)
, designed to streamline your data orchestration processes while maintaining simplicity. As a platform that supports hyper-automation, Workato enables users to accomplish a wide range of tasks while offering a seamless building experience and user interface (UI). This empowers citizen builders to build data orchestrations, without sacrificing on robust data orchestration capabilities.
Workato enables you to build effective data pipelines that can combine and harmonize data from different sources, applications, and systems within your organization, transform the data, and load it to databases or data warehouses to gather insights that can help to better understand your business and customers.
#
Workato Data orchestration strengths
As a data orchestration platform, Workato has the following strengths.
LCNC (Low-Code/No-Code)
Workato is built on a low-code/no-code foundation, enabling users to create powerful data orchestration workflows with minimal coding. This approach provides flexibility without sacrificing simplicity, making it a versatile platform for users with varying technical backgrounds.
Flexible
The flexibility of Workato's recipe-based structure allows you to design and execute data orchestration processes tailored to your specific needs. You can customize your workflows and connect with any system, automate complex workflows, or orchestrate data transformations, Workato's flexibility ensures a customizable solution.
Scalable
Workato offers bulk actions and triggers that give you the ability to scale and handle large volume data in data orchestration Workflows.
Reusable components
Using reusable components such as
Recipe functions
in your data orchestration pipelines, enables you to build efficient and maintainable data orchestration workflows. This approach reduces the overhead of managing numerous recipes and promotes a more streamlined and organized data orchestration process.
Observability
Observability is a key aspect of Workato's data orchestration solution. Leveraging our
logging service
and
job report
, users can gain insights into the performance and status data orchestration pipelines. This ensures transparency and facilitates proactive monitoring and issue resolution.
Performance
Workato offers high performance through bulk operations and
file storage
capabilities. These features contribute to the efficient execution of data orchestration tasks, ensuring optimal performance even with large datasets.
#
ETL/ELT
Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) and Extract, Load, and Transform (ELT) are processes used in data orchestration and data warehousing to extract, transform, and load data from various sources into a target destination, such as a data warehouse or a data lake.
#
Bulk vs Batch
Bulk/Batch actions/triggers are available throughout Workato. Bulk processing gives you the ability to process large amounts of data in a single job, especially suited for ETL/ELT. Batch processing is restricted by batch sizes and memory constraints, and are generally less suitable in the context of ETL/ELT.
#
Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL)
ETL begins with the extraction phase, where data is sourced from multiple heterogeneous sources, including databases, files, APIs, and web services. This raw data is then subjected to a transformation phase, such as cleaning or filtering before it is loaded into a target system, typically a data warehouse.
#
Extract, Load, and Transform (ELT)
Similar to ETL, ELT starts with the extraction phase, where data is extracted from various sources. ELT focuses on loading the extracted data into a target system such as a data lake or distributed storage. Once the data is loaded, transformations occur within the target system.
←
Workbot for Teams
Concepts
→
Last updated:
4/6/2025, 3:04:15 PM
On this page
Workato Data orchestration strengths
ETL/ELT
Product
How it works
Pricing
What's New
Recipes
Security
Documentation
Product blog
Solutions
HR
Sales
Marketing
Finance
Support
IT
Product (Embed)
Higher Ed
Revenue Operations
Resources
Docs
Customer Success
Content Library
Systematic Community
Workato for Slack
Workato for Microsoft Teams
Use cases
Product Led Sales
Order to Cash
Employee Onboarding
Embedded Integrations
Enterprise iPaaS
IT Help Desk
All use cases >
Applications
Salesforce
Slack
Marketo
NetSuite
ServiceNow
Workday
All Apps >
Company
About us
Customers
Blog
Press
Careers
Partners
Events
© Workato 2025
Privacy
Legal
Sitemap
Contact: (844) 469-6752
The trademarks WORKATO®, WORKBOT® and WORK JAM® are registered in U.S. Patent & Trademark Office to Workato,
Inc.