Flow execution history | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Flow execution history
Saving and reviewing flow data is critical for operational success within 
Okta Workflows
. Preserving the records of your flow executions provides you with valuable insights:
Identify and diagnose error conditions in new and existing flows to ensure seamless operations.
Retrace and analyze executed flows to highlight potential bottlenecks and areas for optimization.
Facilitate auditing of your flows to maintain compliance  to internal policies and external regulations.
Understand flow execution history
The history of each flow execution is comprised of two components:
Flow input and output (IO) data: Within every flow, individual cards contain configurable settings along with input and output values. Opting to 
Save flow data to execution history
 allows 
Okta
 to record the specific data passing through each card during execution. After the flow  execution, you can review and analyze the  values for every card in your flow. 
Flow metadata: 
Okta
 records metadata associated with each execution event. This includes vital information  such as the type of flow, the execution timestamp, and the final execution status.
Access recorded 
data
The recorded data is available on the 
Execution History
 page of your flow. Anyone with the appropriate privileges can view these details for up to 30 days.
Next steps: Managing execution history
Save flow data to execution history
View flow execution history
Clear flow execution history
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback