Workflow apps- FAQs | Workato Docs
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
Get a trial
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
日本語
Get a trial
Orchestrate documentation
Workflow apps
Process automation
Insights
Workbot
Data orchestration
API platform
Event streams
Connectivity
Agentic documentation
Agentic
Agent Studio
Agent Studio use cases
Agent Studio security
Explore features
Getting started
Recipe design
AI features
Community library
Accessing On-prem
Troubleshooting
Organization & workspaces
Data & security
Lifecycle & operations
Connector SDK
Developer API
Embedded
Embedded API
Accelerators
Workflow apps
#
Workflow apps - FAQ
Get answers to frequently asked questions about Workflow apps.
#
General
How does Workato support application development?
Workato supports
application development
by providing tools for data storage, user interfaces, and business logic implementation.
What are the key components of an application in Workato?
An application in Workato consists of
three key components
:
Data storage:
Data is stored in data tables and accessed through the Workflow apps connector.
UI:
User interface for business users, created partially by Workato and customized through Pages.
Business Logic:
Implemented using Workato recipes.
What is the role of the user interface in Workato applications?
The
user interface in Workato applications
provides a platform for business users to interact with the app. Workato auto-generates part of this UI, including features like the list of requests and navigation, while custom Pages allows you to further customize the UI.
What is the Workflow apps portal in Workato and who can access it?
The
Workflow apps portal
in Workato is a web application where business users can access all applications to which they have been granted access. The Workflow apps portal is responsive for mobile and tablet devices and can be customized.
How many end users can I authorize to use apps created with Workflow apps?
The number of end users allowed to interact with Workflow apps depends on your platform plan and any additional capacity you've purchased.
Go to
Platform > Workflow apps portal
or use the
Usage dashboard
to track the number of authorized end users.
Is there a limit to the number of builders or apps that can be created?
No, there is no limit to the number of builders or apps that can be created on the platform. Builders can create as many apps as needed without restrictions.
What is a typical application flow in Workato?
A typical
application flow in Workato
involves a user logging into the Workflow apps portal, navigating to an application to view requests, filling in new requests through custom Pages or the Workflow apps connector, and submitting these requests. Submitted requests trigger recipes that process the requests, which may include tasks assigned to users or automated steps.
flowchart TD
a["User logs in to the Workflow apps portal"] --> b["Opens an app to view requests"]
b["Opens an app to view requests"] --> c["Fills in new requests through custom Pages or the Workflow apps connector"]
c["Fills in new requests through custom Pages or the Workflow apps connector"] --> d["Submits new requests"]
d["Submits new requests"] --> e["Submitted requests trigger recipes that process the requests"]
classDef default fill:#67eadd,stroke:#b3e0e1,stroke-width:2px,color:#000;
#
Authentication and authorization
Do I have to be a Workato user to log in to the Workflow apps portal?
No. The Workflow apps portal is designed for business users inside your organization and beyond and has separate
user and group management
.
Can I add users and groups from my Identity Provider (for example, Okta or Microsoft Entra ID)?
Yes. You can set up SAML SSO with your identity provider, enable Just-In-Time (JIT) provisioning so that the users are created automatically in the system when they first log in, and set up additional SAML attributes so that users land in the appropriate group. Refer to our
SAML administration guide
for more information.
Can I capture data from unauthorized users?
Yes, you can use
public submission forms
to collect submissions and requests from users that don't have a Workflow apps account.
#
Deployment and distribution
Are mobile apps available?
Workflow apps does not allow you to create native mobile apps, however, all
portal pages
, both custom and built-in, have responsive layouts and render properly on mobile and tablet devices.
Can Workflow apps pages be added to my internal websites or business apps as an iFrame?
Yes. You can embed the entire Workflow apps portal, a specific app, or even a page using an
iframe
. This requires explicit enablement by Workato Customer Support.
Can I customize the URL of my application?
You can
provide your subdomain
on your
workato.app
domain (all applications reside on
https://{your-domain}.workato.app
).
Is Workflow apps available for Embedded customers?
The Workflow apps portal is available only to direct customers. Contact your Customer Success Manager for more information.
Can a Workato application have a chain of approvals for the same request?
Yes. It's possible to set up a chain of approvals for the same request in a Workato application by initiating multiple
user tasks
with the same Record ID.
How does a user submit a request in a Workato application?
Users can submit a request either through a custom-defined Page in the application or by using the
Create request action
through the Workflow apps connector in Workato.
What happens when a new request is submitted in Workato?
A
new request submission
triggers a recipe in Workato. This recipe, depending on its configuration, processes the request, which could include data enrichment, manual review, and other actions.
How are tasks assigned and managed in Workato applications?
Tasks are assigned through the
Assign task to users
action in the recipe. This determines the following:
UI Page for the task
Record ID
Task name
Assignee
Expiration period
The assignee receives an email with a link to the task, which can be accessed through the Workflow apps portal.
Is it possible to complete tasks in Workato using external platforms like Slack or Microsoft Teams?
Yes. Tasks can be completed using external platforms through integrations like
Workbot for Slack
or
Workbot for Microsoft Teams
.
#
Data
How do data tables work in Workato?
Data tables
in Workato offer structured data storage. Users can define data tables in projects, with each application typically having one main data table for storing relevant information, such as invoices or PTO requests.
What are the limits on data storage?
Workflow apps data storage limits
include the following:
Maximum of 100 data tables per workspace
Maximum of 1 million rows and 100 columns, 20 of which can be the
Link to a table
type
, per table
100 characters per cell except for the
long text
column type
, which can have up to 10,000 characters
Will data tables replace Lookup Tables?
Data tables
are only bundled with Workflow apps, and you are safe to continue using Lookup Tables for all non-app related automations. You should use data tables for all app-related automations.
Can my data storage (for example, MySQL or Snowflake) be used for storage for app data?
No. The workflow request data is always stored in
data tables
. You can use recipes to sync data between data tables and other storage / apps.
Is it possible to validate the data submitted?
All
pages
automatically perform simple validations, including ensuring that required fields are filled in and that all inputs match their data type.
Workflow apps include
built-in client-side field validation
for the following components:
Email
URL
Phone numbers
Number
Additionally, Workflow apps offer
custom client-side field validation
for specific page components. It supports the following types of custom validation:
Limit input length
Limit input value
Pattern matching with regex
You can also perform validations in the recipe after the record has been created and change the workflow stage to
In Error
if it fails.
#
Application logic
How do I troubleshoot application errors?
Application logic is implemented as Workato recipes, so all
troubleshooting
tools and practices apply.
How are Workato recipes used in workflow automation?
Workato recipes are used to coordinate users and services. This allows you to design workflows that span across time, various services, user personas, and UIs. Recipes often use the
Workflow apps connector
to implement user steps and change workflow stages.
←
Limitations
Process automation
→
Last updated:
4/3/2025, 5:59:20 PM
On this page
General
Authentication and authorization
Deployment and distribution
Data
Application logic
Product
How it works
Pricing
What's New
Recipes
Security
Documentation
Product blog
Solutions
HR
Sales
Marketing
Finance
Support
IT
Product (Embed)
Higher Ed
Revenue Operations
Resources
Docs
Customer Success
Content Library
Systematic Community
Workato for Slack
Workato for Microsoft Teams
Use cases
Product Led Sales
Order to Cash
Employee Onboarding
Embedded Integrations
Enterprise iPaaS
IT Help Desk
All use cases >
Applications
Salesforce
Slack
Marketo
NetSuite
ServiceNow
Workday
All Apps >
Company
About us
Customers
Blog
Press
Careers
Partners
Events
© Workato 2025
Privacy
Legal
Sitemap
Contact: (844) 469-6752
The trademarks WORKATO®, WORKBOT® and WORK JAM® are registered in U.S. Patent & Trademark Office to Workato,
Inc.