HTTP status codes | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
HTTP status codes
Many action cards in Workflows include a 
Status Code
 output field that indicates the success or failure of a specific process in an active flow. The output returned by the card is one of many possible HTTP response status codes that are being used by the connector.
HTTP response status codes belong to one of five categories.
This reference topic does not list unofficial codes or those not specified by any standard. 
Informational
Successful
Redirects
Client errors
Server errors
Informational
Code
Title
Description
100                   
Continue
The initial part of a request has been received and has not yet been rejected by the server. The server intends to send a final response after the request has been fully received and acted upon.
101
Switching Protocols
The server understands and is willing to comply with the client's request, via the Upgrade header field, for a change in the application protocol being used on this connection.
102
Processing
An interim response used to inform the client that the server has accepted the complete request, but has not yet completed it.
103
Early Hints
A response primarily used before the rest of the server's response is ready.
Successful
Code
Title
Description
200                  
OK
The request has succeeded. The specific meaning of the success is dependent on the HTTP method.
201
Created
The request has been fulfilled and has resulted in one or more new resources being created.
202
Accepted
The request has been accepted for processing, but the processing has not been completed. The request might or might not eventually be acted upon, as it might be disallowed when processing actually takes place.
203
Non-Authoritative Information
The request was successful but the enclosed payload has been modified from that of the origin server's 
200 OK
 response by a transforming proxy.
204
No Content
The server has successfully fulfilled the request and that there is no additional content to send in the response payload body.
205
Reset Content
The server has fulfilled the request and desires that the user agent reset the "document view", which caused the request to be sent, to its original state as received from the origin server.
206
Partial Content
The server is successfully fulfilling a range request for the target resource by transferring one or more parts of the selected representation that correspond to the satisfiable ranges found in the request's 
Range
 header field.
207
Multi-Status
A Multi-Status response conveys information about multiple resources in situations where multiple status codes might be appropriate.
208
Already Reported
A response used inside a DAV: propstat response element to avoid enumerating the internal members of multiple bindings to the same collection repeatedly.
226
IM Used
The server has fulfilled a GET request for the resource, and the response is a representation of the result of one or more instance-manipulations applied to the current instance.
Redirects
Code
Title
Description
300                 
Multiple Choices
The target resource has more than one representation, each with its own more specific identifier, and information about the alternatives is being provided so that the user (or user agent) can select a preferred representation by redirecting its request to one or more of those identifiers.
301
Moved Permanently
The target resource has been assigned a new permanent URI and any future references to this resource ought to use one of the enclosed URIs.
302
Found
The target resource resides temporarily under a different URI. Since the redirection might be altered on occasion, the client ought to continue to use the effective request URI for future requests.
303
See Other
The server is redirecting the user agent to a different resource, as indicated by a URI in the 
Location
 header field, which is intended to provide an indirect response to the original request.
304
Not Modified
A conditional GET or HEAD request has been received and would have resulted in a 
200 OK
 response if it were not for the fact that the condition evaluated to false.
305
Use Proxy
Defined in a previous version of this specification and is now deprecated, due to security concerns regarding in-band configuration of a proxy.
307
Temporary Redirect
The target resource resides temporarily under a different URI and the user agent MUST NOT change the request method if it performs an automatic redirection to that URI.
308
Permanent Redirect
The target resource has been assigned a new permanent URI and any future references to this resource ought to use one of the enclosed URIs.
Client errors
Code
Title
Description
400                
Bad Request
The server cannot or will not process the request due to something that is perceived to be a client error (for example, malformed request syntax, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).
401
Unauthorized
The request has not been applied because it lacks valid authentication credentials for the target resource.
403
Forbidden
The server understood the request but refuses to authorize it.
404
Not Found
The origin server did not find a current representation for the target resource or is not willing to disclose that one exists.
405
Method Not Allowed
The method received in the request-line is known by the origin server but not supported by the target resource.
406
Not Acceptable
The target resource does not have a current representation that would be acceptable to the user agent, according to the proactive negotiation header fields received in the request, and the server is unwilling to supply a default representation.
407
Proxy Authentication Required
Similar to 
401 Unauthorized
, but it indicates that the client needs to authenticate itself in order to use a proxy.
408
Request Timeout
The server did not receive a complete request message within the time that it was prepared to wait.
409
Conflict
The request could not be completed due to a conflict with the current state of the target resource. This code is used in situations where the user might be able to resolve the conflict and resubmit the request.
410
Gone
The target resource is no longer available at the origin server and that this condition is likely to be permanent.
411
Length Required
The server refuses to accept the request without a defined Content-Length.
412
Precondition Failed
One or more conditions given in the request header fields evaluated to false when tested on the server.
413
Payload Too Large
The server is refusing to process a request because the request payload is larger than the server is willing or able to process.
414
Request-URI Too Long
The server is refusing to service the request because the request-target is longer than the server is willing to interpret.
415
Unsupported Media Type
The origin server is refusing to service the request because the payload is in a format not supported by this method on the target resource.
416
Requested Range Not Satisfiable
None of the ranges in the request's 
Range
 header field overlap the current extent of the selected resource or that the set of ranges requested has been rejected due to invalid ranges or an excessive request of small or overlapping ranges.
417
Expectation Failed
The expectation given in the request's Expect header field could not be met by at least one of the inbound servers.
421
Misdirected Request
The request was directed at a server that is not able to produce a response. This can be sent by a server that is not configured to produce responses for the combination of scheme and authority that are included in the request URI.
422
Unprocessable Entity
The source or destination resource of a method is locked.
423
Locked
The source or destination resource of a method is locked.
424
Failed Dependency
The method could not be performed on the resource because the requested action depended on another action and that action failed.
425
Too Early
The server is unwilling to risk processing a request that might be replayed.
426
Upgrade Required
The server refuses to perform the request using the current protocol but might be willing to do so after the client upgrades to a different protocol.
428
Precondition Required
The origin server requires the request to be conditional.
429
Too Many Requests
The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time ("rate limiting").
431
Request Header Fields Too Large
The server is unwilling to process the request because its header fields are too large. The request MAY be resubmitted after reducing the size of the request header fields.
451
Unavailable For Legal Reasons
The server is denying access to the resource as a consequence of a legal demand.
Server errors
Code
Title
Description
500               
Internal Server Error
The server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request.
501
Not Implemented
The server does not support the functionality required to fulfill the request.
502
Bad Gateway
The server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, received an invalid response from an inbound server it accessed while attempting to fulfill the request.
503
Service Unavailable
The server is currently unable to handle the request due to a temporary overload or scheduled maintenance, which will likely be alleviated after some delay.
504
Gateway Timeout
The server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, did not receive a timely response from an upstream server it needed to access in order to complete the request.
505
HTTP Version Not Supported
The server does not support, or refuses to support, the major version of HTTP that was used in the request message.
506
Variant Also Negotiates
The server has an internal configuration error: the chosen variant resource is configured to engage in transparent content negotiation itself, and is therefore not a proper end point in the negotiation process.
507
Insufficient Storage
The method could not be performed on the resource because the server is unable to store the representation needed to successfully complete the request.
508
Loop Detected
The server terminated an operation because it encountered an infinite loop while processing a request with "Depth: infinity". This status indicates that the entire operation failed.
510
Not Extended
The policy for accessing the resource has not been met in the request. The server should send back all the information necessary for the client to issue an extended request.
511
Network Authentication Required
The client needs to authenticate to gain network access.
Related topics
Set error handling for cards in flows
Repair an invalid flow
Workflows error messages
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback