Put | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Put
Performs an API Connector Put request, returning the result of this request and the response headers. On input, takes a required URL input and optional auth, header, body, and query inputs. Each optional input can either be modeled by a singular object-typed input or by multiple keys with the appropriate group attribute. On output, returns an object with two keys, headers and output. The output key contains the response body, and the headers key contains the response header. More detailed information can be accessed about these by using multiple keys with the appropriate grouping.
Input
URL
 (text): required URL for Put request
headers
 (Section): If required for the Put request to the specified URL, create headers by specifying an input name equal to the key (e.g. "Content-Type") and then specifying a value for the input (e.g. "application/json"). Information on headers required for your Put request should be specified by the provider of the URL.
query
 (Section): If necessary for the Put request to the specified URL, create query string parameters by specifying an input name equal to the key (e.g. "page") and then specifying a value for the input (e.g. "1"). Information on the query string parameters available for your Put request should be specified by the provider of the URL.
body
 (Section): If required for the Put request to the specified URL, create a request body by specifying an input name equal to the key (e.g. "id") and then specifying a value for the input (e.g. "123"). Information on the request body required for your Put request should be specified by the provider of the URL.
Output
statusCode
 (Number): the status (200, 404, etc) associated with the Put request
body 
(Section): using syntax similar to the outputs for 
Get Multiple
, specify optional paths that allow retrieving values from the response body
headers
 (Section): specify optional keys that allow retrieving values from the response headers
Related topics
Functions
Workflow elements
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback