JWT direct linking troubleshooting | Workato Docs
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
Get a trial
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
日本語
Get a trial
Orchestrate documentation
Workflow apps
Process automation
Insights
Workbot
Data orchestration
API platform
Event streams
Connectivity
Agentic documentation
Agentic
Agent Studio
Agent Studio use cases
Agent Studio security
Explore features
Getting started
Recipe design
AI features
Community library
Accessing On-prem
Troubleshooting
Organization & workspaces
Data & security
Lifecycle & operations
Connector SDK
Developer API
Embedded
Embedded API
Accelerators
Embedded
Customer experience options
Implementation
#
JWT direct linking troubleshooting
This guide contains common issues and error codes you may encounter when implementing JWT direct linking. This document is organized into two sections:
Common issues
Error codes
HTTP request errors
JWT header/payload errors
Account-related errors
#
Common issues
App refused to connect
If you receive this error when rendering the connection
<iframe>
, it is usually because your browser security settings do not allow third-party cookies. Configure your browser to enable cookie access in a third-party context.
Google Chrome:
Enable all cookies. Google Chrome blocks third-party cookies in Incognito mode by default. Enable third-party cookies in Incognito mode by going to
Settings
>
Privacy and security
>
General settings
and select
Allow all cookies
.
Select
Allow all cookies
to allow the Workato
iframe
to load
Apple Safari:
Disable
prevent cross-site tracking
in
Preferences > Privacy.
Browser compatibility
Workato supports all leading browsers, including Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari. Workato does not support Internet Explorer. If you currently use Internet Explorer, switch to Microsoft Edge to test Embedded functionality.
Workato iframe not receiving connection events
Workato uses the
PostMessage API
to send event information from the connection
iframe
to the partner application. These messages include connection status changes, height changes, error messages and more. The
iframe
's origin URL must be allowlisted in Workato. Contact your Workato Success Representative to configure the backend environment if you cannot receive these messages.
MULTIPLE ORIGINS
Some use cases require you to receive PostMessages in multiple origins, including embedding the Connection Widget in multiple customer workspaces. In this scenario, your Workato Customer Success Representative cannot configure the URL for you. Update the Embedding Origin configuration in each individual customer workspace by navigating to
Admin > Manage Customers > Choose Customer > Settings > Embedding Origin.
Alternatively, update the origin URL by calling our
update customer API.
(opens new window)
#
Error codes
You may encounter the following errors when implementing JWT direct linking. We organized this list by error category.
HTTP request errors
JWT header/payload errors
Account-related errors
#
HTTP request errors
http_request_invalid
Requests sent to our servers must meet the following conditions: it is a valid HTTP request, it is in HTML format, and it is not in XHR format. Verify that the request meets the specified conditions to resolve this error.
path_invalid
The path provided must be valid and secured with HTTPS. To resolve this error, verify that the URL/path is valid and begins with
https://
.
#
JWT header/payload errors
alg_invalid
The signing algorithm used in the header of the JWT is not
RS256
. To resolve this error, verify that the
alg
claim in the header of the JWT has the value RS256.
iat_invalid
The
iat
(issued at) claim in the payload of the JWT is not an integer. To resolve this error, verify that the
iat
claim in the payload is an integer.
iat_missing
The
iat
(issued at) code in the payload of the JWT is not present. Verify that the
iat
claim in the payload is present to resolve this error.
jti_invalid
The
jti
(JWT ID) claim is not a string or an integer. To resolve this error, verify that the
jti
claim in the payload is either a string or an integer.
jti_missing
The
jti
(JWT ID) claim is missing from the payload of the JWT. To resolve this error, verify that the
jti
is present.
jti_reused
The
jti
(JWT ID) claim in the JWT payload has been used more than one time to render an iframe. The
jti
claim is a unique identifier that allows a JWT to be used one time. To resolve this error, use a globally unique
jti
claim value when generating the JWT token.
token_expired
The generated JWT token is valid for 30 seconds. Verify the token generates in real-time and that the
iat
claim in the payload has a value of +/- 30 secs from the current time to resolve this error.
token_invalid
This error suggests that one of the JWT components is missing or incorrectly formatted. In its compact form, a correctly structured JWT contains a header, payload, and signature in the following format:
header.payload.signature
. To resolve this error, decode the JWT and verify that the header and payload are properly formatted.
token_missing
The JWT is missing. Verify that the JWT is present in the request to resolve this error.
token_signature_invalid
The signature (private key) used to sign the JWT is invalid. To resolve this error, decode the JWT and verify that the signature used to sign the JWT is correctly configured.
#
Account-related errors
member_invalid
This error occurs when the user attempting to access the workspace is not a valid workspace member. Verify that the user trying to access Workato has been added to the customer team correctly.
member_unconfirmed
The workspace member's account is not confirmed. Confirm the customer workspace member's email to resolve this error. If this is not possible, contact your Workato Success Representative for assistance.
team_direct_team_link_disabled
This error occurs when the customer uses an old account to test Embedded, meaning that the account existed before the OEM was configured. The OEM configuration doesn’t apply to accounts created before the change. To resolve this error, create a new customer. If the error persists in the new account, contact your Workato Success Representative for assistance.
team_missing
This error occurs when a user tries to access Workato and does not belong to a customer team. Verify that the user trying to access Workato has been added to the customer team correctly.
team_not_allowed
This error occurs when the admin account ID is used while generating the JWT. Embedded does not let an
iframe
render if you use your admin account ID while generating the JWT. To resolve this, change the ID of the account to a customer ID. If the error persists, contact your Workato Representative for assistance.
team_saml_required
This error occurs when a user tries to access a team that has SAML SSO enabled. The user must enable SAML SSO and log in through the SAML IdP. Contact a team admin to ensure this user is SAML SSO enabled and that they have access to log in through the SAML IdP.
team_unconfirmed
The team account is not confirmed. Confirm the customer team’s email to resolve this error. If this is not possible, contact your Workato Success Representative for assistance.
vendor_admin_missing
The Embedded partner's account is not properly configured. To resolve this error, contact your Workato Success Representative for assistance.
vendor_direct_team_link_disabled
The Embedded partner's account is not properly configured. Contact your Workato representative for assistance.
vendor_key_missing
This error occurs when the Embedded partner's account is not assigned a unique key. If the error persists, contact your Workato representative for assistance.
vendor_missing
This error occurs when the Embedded Vendor ID used to generate the JWT token is incorrect, or the public key does not match the private key used to sign the JWT token. Verify that the API and public keys match Workato’s backend configs. If the error persists, contact your Workato Success Representative for assistance.
X-frame-options: same_origin
Embedded does not let an iFrame render if the user ID passed into the JWT references the Embedded admin user (owner of the admin account) or an Embedded customer manager (from within the admin account). If you pass a customer workspace ID into the payload of the JWT, verify that the customer ID was created in the customer workspace referenced. If the error persists while using the correct customer ID, clear the browser cache/cookies and try again.
←
Create a JWT
Branded access SSO
→
Last updated:
4/25/2024, 5:58:27 PM
On this page
Common issues
Error codes
Product
How it works
Pricing
What's New
Recipes
Security
Documentation
Product blog
Solutions
HR
Sales
Marketing
Finance
Support
IT
Product (Embed)
Higher Ed
Revenue Operations
Resources
Docs
Customer Success
Content Library
Systematic Community
Workato for Slack
Workato for Microsoft Teams
Use cases
Product Led Sales
Order to Cash
Employee Onboarding
Embedded Integrations
Enterprise iPaaS
IT Help Desk
All use cases >
Applications
Salesforce
Slack
Marketo
NetSuite
ServiceNow
Workday
All Apps >
Company
About us
Customers
Blog
Press
Careers
Partners
Events
© Workato 2025
Privacy
Legal
Sitemap
Contact: (844) 469-6752
The trademarks WORKATO®, WORKBOT® and WORK JAM® are registered in U.S. Patent & Trademark Office to Workato,
Inc.