For Each - Ignore Errors | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
For Each - Ignore Errors
Process a list by calling a helper flow for each item. This function is almost identical to the 
For Each
 function, with one important difference: For Each will stop processing more items if an error occurs when processing one of the items in the helper flow. On the other hand, this function continues to process all items even if some hit errors in the helper flow. Here's how to think about it:
Use 
For Each
 if your flow is only successful when every helper item is processed successfully.
Use 
For Each - Ignore Errors
 if some items are expected to have errors during normal operation.
As an example of a flow where some items are expected to have errors - suppose you are sending an email out to a list of email addresses. Some of those email addresses will probably be out of date, so you may receive an error when trying to send to them. But that error shouldn't stop you from sending to the rest of the email addresses on your list. So in this case, For Each - Ignore Errors is a great fit. You can still replay the helper executions, for example, if you want to retry any of the errors. For more details on using this card, please see the 
For Each
 topic.
Input Fields
list
 (List of Objects): List to operate on
flow
 (Object): Helper flow that will be called once for each item in the list
with the following values
 (dynamically generated): Inputs defined by the helper flow - these will populate when you select the helper flow using the 
Choose Flow
 dialog
concurrency
 (Number): Number of items in the list to process in parallel. If it is important that the items are processed in sequence, use 1. Otherwise a higher number like 5 or 10 will cause your flow to complete sooner.
Output Fields
There are no output fields in this card.
Related topics
Lists
Functions
Workflow elements
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback