Map | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Map
You can use the Map function to convert a list to a new list by running a helper flow for each item in the list.
For example, if you have a helper flow that converts numbers to text (1 to "1"), you can run that helper flow on a whole list at once using the Map function to go from 
[1,2,3,4,5]
 to 
["1","2","3","4","5"]
. Similarly, you might use Map to generate a list of row subtotals from a list of spreadsheet rows (objects). With the Map function, the output list always has the same number of items as the input list.
Defining a helper flow with the Map function
Filling Out a Map Card
Defining a helper flow with the Map function
To use this function, you need a helper flow that takes a single item in the list and calculates the value to use for the new list. This helper flow gets called once for each item in the list.
Define fields on the event card that will be the inputs that help determine the corresponding value for the new list. At a minimum, you'll need a field for the item from the list (which you can name whatever you want). Then build the rest of the helper flow, ending with a 
Return
 card that provides the value for the same position in the new list. If the new list will made up of items that are not type Object (for example, numbers or text), then there should be a single return field of that type and its name doesn't matter. If the new list will be a list of objects, then there should be several fields on the Return card: one for each of the keys of the object and the names of the fields must match the key names.
Filling Out a Map Card
Update the following input fields:
list
: The starting list
Helper Flow
: The helper flow that is called once for each item in the list
With the following values
(dynamically generated)
: Here you will see a list of all of the inputs required by the helper flow. You can use these like normal input fields, or (for at least one of the inputs) you can click the arrow to the right of the input to choose 
Item
 to send the list item for that input to the helper flow. In some instance, you may also be able to select a specific path within an object instead of 
Item
.
Concurrency
(number)
: Displays the number of items in the list to process in parallel.  If it is important that the items are processed in sequence, use 1.  Otherwise a higher number like 5 or 10 will cause your flow to complete sooner.
The following output fields display:
New list
: Displays the resulting list after the helper flow has executed on each of the items. Set the type of 
new list
 to match the value being returned by the helper flow, or to Object if multiple values are being returned.
See Also
Parent flows and other flow types
Lists
Functions
Workflow elements
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback