Unique Custom | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Unique Custom
Use custom logic to remove non-unique values from a list.
To use this function, you need a helper flow that calculates some value to determine if an item in the list is unique or not. For example, you may have a list of available volunteers but you only want one person for each combination of job specialty and primary language. The specified helper flow gets invoked once for each item in the list and returns a value for each item. After all  items are assigned values, a new list is constructed with only one item for each unique value.
On the card, define the fields  to use as the inputs for the helper flow to determine the unique value. Typically you include a field for each item of the list, for example, if the list is a list of text, then one of the inputs should be a string.  You can also include whatever other inputs your flow needs to calculate the sort value. If you need to know the position of the current item within the list, use the 
Index
 field from the context section of the helper flow card. Then build the rest of the helper flow, ending with a 
Return
 card that returns just a single value. The name for the value on the 
Return
 card doesn't matter.  Save the helper flow and turn it on.
On the 
Unique Custom
 card in your main flow, input the list you want to evaluate, and then select the helper flow you built. The inputs are automatically populated so you can map data into them. To map an input to accept each item of the list, click in that input field to see an 
Item
 dropdown menu and select that item. Or, if your list is a list of objects, you may also see the schema of the object, that is, the keys that it contains. You can build your helper flow to accept those keys as inputs. In addition, you can drag in outputs from previous cards in the flow. In that scenario, the same value is used for each item in this list.
Input
Field
Definition
Type
Required
For each item in this list
list
The input list that contains the duplicates you want to remove.
List of Objects
TRUE
Run this Flow
Helper Flow
The helper flow called once for each item in the list.
Flow
TRUE
With these options
concurrency
The number of items in the list to process in parallel. 
If it's important to process the items in sequence, use a value of 
1
.  Otherwise,  your flow completes faster if you use a higher number like 
5
 or 
10
.
Number
TRUE
With the following values
The inputs that the helper flow defines.
These fields are populated when you select the helper flow using the 
Choose Flow
 dialog.
Dynamically generated
TRUE
Output
Field
Definition
Type
list
The output list, containing only one item for each unique value returned by the helper flow.
The type of output list should match the type of the input list, for example, a list of text or a list of objects.
List of Objects
Example
This example takes a list and removes any strings  that have the same length. It uses a helper flow that accepts a text input and returns the length of the text.
The input is the following list of text: 
["this","is","a","test"]
.
Helper flow
Main flow
For the text input to the helper flow, click and choose 
Item
 from the dropdown list.
The output 
list
 contains only one word of each length: 
["this","is","a"]
.
Related topics
Lists
Functions
Workflow elements
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback