Filter Custom | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Filter Custom
Given a list, the Filter Custom function creates a new list that contains only those items in the list that pass a test. The test is done by calling a helper flow once for each item. The flow returns true or false, as to whether that item should be included in the output list. To filter using a simple comparison test, use the Filter function instead.
To use this function, first build the helper flow that you will use to test each item. This helper flow will be invoked once for each item in the list. Define fields on the event card that will be the inputs that feed into the test. Typically you will include a field for the item of the list. You can also include other inputs that your flow will need to perform the test. Then build the rest of the helper flow, ending with a Return card that returns a single value of the true/false type -- either True (to include that item in the resulting list) or False (to not include it). The name of the true/false field on the Return card doesn't matter. Save the flow and turn it on.
Now go back to the Filter Custom card and select the flow you just built. The inputs will auto-populate, then you can map data into them. To map an input to accept each item of the list, click in that field and you will see a drop down that includes 
Item
 - select that. Or if your list is a list of objects, you may also see the schema of the object, i.e. the keys that it contains, and you can also build your helper flow to accept those as inputs. In addition, you can drag in outputs from previous cards in the flow - in that case, the same value will be used for each item in this list.
Input Fields
list:
 Input list that contains all of the items you will test
flow
: Helper flow that will be called once for each item in the list
with the following values
 (dynamically generated): Inputs defined by the helper flow - these will populate after you select the helper flow using the 
Choose Flow
 dialog
concurrency
: Number of items in the list to process in parallel. If it is important that the items are processed in sequence, use 1. Otherwise a higher number like 5 or 10 will cause your flow to complete sooner.
Output Fields
list:
 Output list that contains only those items that passed the test, as determined by the provided helper flow.
Related topics
Parent flows and other flow types
Lists
Functions
Workflow elements
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback