Terraform overview | Okta Developer
Community
Forum
Blog
Pricing
Okta Docs
Okta.com
Log in
      Sign up
    On this page
            Okta plugin for Terraform
Loading...
    Terraform overview
Terraform uses code to manage Okta orgs in both development and production environments. Managing with code enables you to:
Apply oversight and auditing to changes in your orgs
Control access to Okta objects and changes
Implement best practices for operations, such as source control and automated deployment
You write code in Terraform that describes the desired state of your Okta org, including groups, policies, apps, and more. Terraform uses that description to examine the current state of your org and then creates a plan with the appropriate changes. You can check the plan, modify your description as needed, and run the plan to make the changes.
Okta plugin for Terraform 
Terraform uses plugins called Providers to automate different types of services and applications. The Okta Provider is the plugin for Workforce Identity Cloud (WIC) that enables you to manage your Okta org with Terraform. The provider contains many components that provide the functionality to manage parts of your org, such as groups and applications. In Terraform, these components are identified as resources and data sources. You use resources to describe the desired state of objects in your org and data sources to read the state of objects in your org.
For example, you can include an 
okta_groups
 resource in your Terraform code to create and update a group. Similarly, you can include an 
okta_policy
 data source for Terraform to read the information for a policy.
Note:
 Okta recommends managing a type of object in your org using either Terraform or the Admin Console. Managing the same objects, such as groups or policies, with multiple methods can introduce synchronization issues and increases the risk of errors.
The Okta Provider interacts with your org by making API calls using the Okta Go SDK. Each resource and data source makes calls to different APIs to read and manage the objects in your org. Some resources and data sources make more than one API call when you run your Terraform code. See 
Minimize Terraform rate limit errors
 for tips on managing the number of API calls that Terraform makes.
For a closer look at how resources and data sources call the API, see the 
terraform-provider-okta
(opens new window)
 GitHub repository.
Note:
 To use Terraform to automate your Customer Identity Cloud (CIC), use the Auth0 Provider.
Manage with code 
You write Terraform code that uses resources, data sources, and other items to describe the desired state of your org. The code is organized in one or more configuration files, ones that end in 
.tf
. Using multiple configuration files gives you flexibility in how you group your resources and data sources.
Terraform uses all files in a single directory, the configuration directory, to build the plan. The collection of Terraform files in the directory is called a configuration.
Okta recommends using one configuration per Okta org. This reduces the risk of conflicts and errors when managing your org.
See 
Files and Directories
(opens new window)
 in the Terraform documentation.
Synchronize Terraform and your org 
Terraform tracks the state of managed objects to make changes to your org. When you run your configuration, Terraform uses this information to find the differences between the current and desired state. Terraform can then apply the required changes to reach the desired state.
Terraform stores the current state of your org in a JSON state file, which is named 
terraform.tfstate
 by default. When you run your configuration, Terraform makes API calls to refresh the state file before applying changes.
Note:
 Okta recommends storing the state file remotely, such as with a cloud provider. This helps you version, encrypt, and share the state file.
See 
State
(opens new window)
 in the Terraform documentation.
Run Terraform with the command line 
Terraform includes a command-line interface (CLI) that you use to interact with and run your configuration. The CLI includes many useful commands, but there are three key commands that you use to run any configuration:
terraform init
: Initializes your configuration's directory by downloading the required provider plugins, installs modules used in the configuration, and configures the Terraform backend for storing state. See 
Command: init
(opens new window)
 in the Terraform documentation.
terraform plan
: Generates a preview of the resources that Terraform creates, changes, and removes when you apply the configuration. See 
Command: plan
(opens new window)
 in the Terraform documentation.
terraform apply
: Creates, changes, and removes objects in your org according to the plan. See 
Command: apply
(opens new window)
 in the Terraform documentation.
You usually run the commands in the following order: 
init
, 
plan
, and 
apply
. This order ensures that Terraform is ready to run and gives you an opportunity to preview the changes before Terraform makes them.
See 
Use the Command Line Interface
(opens new window)
 in the Terraform documentation.
Get started 
Start automating your org by configuring Terraform access and managing users with groups and policies:
Install Terraform
(opens new window)
Enable Terraform access for your Okta org
Manage groups of users with Terraform
Manage user access with Terraform
Edit This Page On GitHub
        On this page
Okta plugin for Terraform
Manage with code
Synchronize Terraform and your org
Run Terraform with the command line
Get started
      Additional links
          Questions? Ask us on the
            forum.
          Contact & Legal
Contact our team
Contact sales
Developer Service terms
Site terms
Privacy policy
Copyright & trademarks
          More information
Integrate with Okta
Pricing
3rd-party notes
Auth0
Archive
OKTA.COM
Products, case studies, resources
HELP CENTER
Knowledgebase, roadmaps, and more
TRUST
System status, security, compliance
Copyright © 2025 Okta. All rights reserved.
Feedback