Overview | Okta Developer
Community
Forum
Blog
Pricing
Okta Docs
Okta.com
Log in
      Sign up
    On this page
            Custom password recovery
Loading...
    Overview
    Identity Engine
Okta's Embedded solutions support various architectures, use cases, and customization needs. These guides cover the more advanced use cases, where you may have specific requirements for your system architecture and overall user experience.
Custom password recovery 
Okta's embedded solutions allow you to customize your authentication use cases with full support for theming, branding, and extensive ways to control the user experience. The 
Custom password recovery guide
 covers customizations for one particular use case, self-service password recovery, where an email authenticator is used to verify the user before they can reset their password.
Email magic link 
The Okta email authenticator supports two methods for users to validate their credentials. In both methods, Identity Engine sends an email to their primary email address, and either:
The user copies a one-time passcode (OTP) from the email to your application and submits it to Identity Engine for authentication.
The user clicks an embedded email link that submits the OTP directly to Identity Engine for authentication.
The 
Email Magic Links (EML) overview
 demonstrates the difference between the two methods, and how to integrate Email Magic Links (EML) into an application that uses the Embedded Sign-In Widget or a supported Embedded SDK.
Edit This Page On GitHub
        On this page
Custom password recovery
Email magic link
      Additional links
          Questions? Ask us on the
            forum.
          Contact & Legal
Contact our team
Contact sales
Developer Service terms
Site terms
Privacy policy
Copyright & trademarks
          More information
Integrate with Okta
Pricing
3rd-party notes
Auth0
Archive
OKTA.COM
Products, case studies, resources
HELP CENTER
Knowledgebase, roadmaps, and more
TRUST
System status, security, compliance
Copyright © 2025 Okta. All rights reserved.
Feedback