Blog | Okta Developer
Search
Community 
Forum
Toolkit
Blog
                            Pricing
                            Okta.com
                            Admin Console
                            Sign Up
Guides
Concept
Reference
Languages & SDKs
                    Sign Up
Astronomy Geek to Oktanaut: Landing as a Dev Advocate at Okta
Akanksha Bhasin
April 21, 2025
2 MIN READ
I’m Akanksha Bhasin, and I’m all about building community for developers. I come from a developer background, and for over six years, I’ve been building and growing communities for developers. On top of that, I’ve spent the last four years diving into Developer Relations. I’ve had the chance to work with some fast-growing companies, helping them build their communities worldwide. That means getting the word out about emerging tech to developers, organizing significant events and...
Read more
Integrators Assemble!
E. Dunham
February 28, 2025
1 MIN READ
The Developer Podcast is back, focusing on all things integrator this season! In this introductory episode, you’ll meet the hosts and learn what’s in store for the rest of the season. We’ll get more hands-on with technical and architectural identity integration topics through the season. You can also find this eposode in audio form on Casted or your favorite source of podcasts. If it’s missing from your preferred podcast platform, please let us know in...
Read more
Announcing Integrator Office Hours
E. Dunham
January 28, 2025
1 MIN READ
Are you working on an integration for the Okta Integration Network(OIN)? Would you like assistance designing, implementing, or submitting your integration? Our Integrator Office Hours program is now open to all builders at all stages of integration development! To attend, simply sign up via Zoom. If you share more details about your integration when you sign up, we’ll make sure to have the right experts at your session! You can also ask questions on the...
Read more
How to Submit Your System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) Integration to the Okta Integration Network
Semona Igama
December 30, 2024
2 MIN READ
You have an app with SSO capabilities. What else can you do with Okta to transform it into an enterprise-ready powerhouse? Today’s enterprises face critical identity management challenges that directly impact their operations; this includes: Rapid business growth outpacing their current user management capabilities Scattered user accounts creating administrative chaos User management that doesn’t scale with company growth (access free-for-all to resources) Bottlenecks in user provisioning slowing down productivity (i.e., manual provisioning) and more critically,...
Read more
Introduction to the Okta Integration Network
E. Dunham
November 6, 2024
1 MIN READ
Whether or not you use Okta’s products, you may find yourself working on software whose target audience includes Okta customers. Adding your application to the Okta Integration Network creates a smoother and less error-prone user management experience for these shared customers, and can unlock the potential of additional features as well. For a high-level perspective on the benefits of building to the open standards supported by the OIN, which also lets you easily support any...
Read more
How to Build Secure Okta Node.js Integrations with DPoP
Ram Gandhi
October 23, 2024
9 MIN READ
 CODE
Integrating with Okta management API endpoints might be a good idea if you are trying to read or manage Okta resources programmatically. This blog demonstrates how to securely set up a node application to interact with Okta management API endpoints using a service app. Okta API management endpoints can be accessed using an access token issued by the Okta org authorization server with the appropriate scopes needed to make an API call. This can be...
Read more
How to Create a Secure CI/CD Pipeline Using Okta Terraform
Nick Connelly
October 11, 2024
18 MIN READ
 CODE
Embarking on a DevOps journey can be exciting and daunting, especially for beginners. The landscape is vast, and the learning curve can feel steep. One of the most common challenges is setting up and managing a robust Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline that ensures seamless integration and delivery of code changes. This guide aims to simplify that process by walking you through setting up a CI/CD pipeline for Okta using Terraform, AWS, and GitHub Actions....
Read more
Propel Your SaaS Apps Into the Future at Oktane
Michael Palermo
Jeff Taylor
September 26, 2024
2 MIN READ
We’ve been discussing and reflecting on the Future of Identity over the last couple of months. It’s apparent to us that Identity is rapidly growing in its complexity. The surface area that our customers need to protect is growing, like a sunrise revealing a hidden terrain in the morning twilight. We realize that in a short time, the growing demands of customers will start to influence the roadmaps of SaaS companies and their developers to...
Read more
Secure OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens with Proofs of Possession
Alisa Duncan
September 10, 2024
15 MIN READ
 CODE
In OAuth, a valid access token grants the caller access to resources and the ability to perform actions on the resources. This means the access token is powerful and dangerous if it falls into malicious hands. The traditional bearer token scheme means the token grants anyone who possesses it access. A new OAuth 2.0 extension specification, Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP), defines a standard way that binds the access token to the OAuth client sending...
Read more
Elevate Access Token Security by Demonstrating Proof-of-Possession
Alisa Duncan
September 5, 2024
8 MIN READ
We use access tokens to request data and perform actions within our software systems. The client application sends a bearer token to the resource server. The resource server checks the validity of the access token before acting upon the HTTP request. What happens if the requesting party is malicious, steals your token, and makes a fraudulent API call? Would the resource server honor the HTTP request? If you use a bearer token, the answer is...
Read more
    Page: 1 of 76
Next »
Need Support?
              You can reach us directly at developers@okta.com or you can also ask us on the 
forum
.
Social
GitHub
Twitter
YouTube
Forum
Blog RSS
Contact & Legal
Contact our team
Contact sales
Terms & conditions
Privacy policy
More Info
Pricing
Integrate with Okta
Change Log
3rd-party notes
Auth0 platform
OKTA.COM
Products, case studies, resources
HELP CENTER
Knowledgebase, roadmaps, and more
TRUST
System status, security, compliance
Copyright © 2025 Okta.