Create an API token | Okta Developer
Community
Forum
Blog
Pricing
Okta Docs
Okta.com
Log in
      Sign up
    On this page
            Okta API tokens
Loading...
    Create an API token
This guide explains what an API token is, why you need one, and how to create one.
Learning outcomes 
Learn how an Okta API token is used.
Understand why it's good practice to create a service account for use with an API token.
Know the alternatives to Okta API tokens.
Find out when a token expires and what happens when it expires.
Find out how API tokens are deactivated.
What you need 
An Okta org
Okta API tokens 
Okta API tokens are used to authenticate requests to Okta APIs. When calling an Okta API endpoint, you need to supply a valid API token in the HTTP 
Authorization
 header, with a valid token specified as the header value. You need to prefix the value with the 
SSWS
 identifier, which specifies the proprietary authentication scheme that Okta uses. For example:
Authorization
:
SSWS 00QCjAl4MlV-WPXM...0HmjFx-vbGua
Privilege level 
Different Okta API operations require different admin privilege levels. API tokens inherit the privilege level of the admin account that is used to create them. It’s therefore good practice to create a service account to use when you create API tokens. With a separate service account, you can assign specific privilege levels to your API tokens. See 
Administrators
(opens new window)
 for admin account types and the specific privileges of each.
OAuth 2.0 instead of API tokens 
As an alternative to Okta API tokens, you can use Okta APIs. You can use a scoped OAuth 2.0 access token for various Okta endpoints. Each access token enables the bearer to perform specific actions on specific Okta endpoints, with that ability controlled by which scopes the access token contains. For more information, see the 
OAuth for Okta
 guide.
Create the token 
See 
Create Okta API tokens
(opens new window)
 to create an API token and define the network zones that API calls can originate from.
Note:
 Record the token value. This is the only opportunity to see it and record it.
Token network restrictions 
You can specify a network range for every SSWS API token. The tokens only work if API requests are made from the specified IP or network range. You can specify network zones while you create an API token. You can also modify an existing token to specify a network range.
See 
Manage Okta API tokens
(opens new window)
 for steps on creating API tokens and editing network restrictions for an existing API token.
Token rate limits 
When API tokens are created, the rate limit for each token interaction is set automatically to 50 percent of each API maximum limit. See 
API rate limits
. You can adjust this percentage by editing the 
Token rate limits
 section. See 
Set token rate limits
(opens new window)
.
Token expiration and deactivation 
Tokens expire automatically after a certain period and can also be deactivated at any time.
Token expiration 
Tokens are valid for 30 days from creation or last use, so that the 30 day expiration automatically refreshes with each API call. Tokens that aren't used for 30 days expire. The 30-day period is fixed and can't be changed for your org.
Token deactivation 
If a user account is deactivated in Okta, any API token created by that user account is deprovisioned at the same time.
Next steps 
With the token created, you can begin using it, supplying it in the 
Authorization header
 of calls to Okta API endpoints. See 
Sign users into your SPA using the redirect model
 for a functional example.
See also 
See 
Use Postman with the Okta REST APIs
 for a guide to trying out Okta APIs using Postman, as an easy way to explore.
See the 
System Log Transaction Object
(opens new window)
 for information on viewing the API token ID in the Okta System Log.
For information on the general principles that the Okta API follows, see the 
Reference overview
(opens new window)
.
Edit This Page On GitHub
        On this page
Okta API tokens
Privilege level
OAuth 2.0 instead of API tokens
Create the token
Token network restrictions
Token rate limits
Token expiration and deactivation
Token expiration
Token deactivation
Next steps
See also
      Additional links
          Questions? Ask us on the
            forum.
          Contact & Legal
Contact our team
Contact sales
Developer Service terms
Site terms
Privacy policy
Copyright & trademarks
          More information
Integrate with Okta
Pricing
3rd-party notes
Auth0
Archive
OKTA.COM
Products, case studies, resources
HELP CENTER
Knowledgebase, roadmaps, and more
TRUST
System status, security, compliance
Copyright © 2025 Okta. All rights reserved.
Feedback