Okta Classic Engine overview | Okta Developer
Community
Forum
Blog
Pricing
Okta Docs
Okta.com
Log in
      Sign up
    On this page
            Sign users in guides for Okta Classic Engine
Loading...
    Okta Classic Engine overview
Sign users in guides for Okta Classic Engine 
Okta Auth SDK Guide
: In this guide you will learn how to use the Auth SDK on a simple static page to retrieve and store an OpenID Connect (OIDC) token (id_token), and get an Okta session.
Okta Sign-In Widget Guide
: This guide will walk you through the installation process for the Okta Sign-In Widget, as well as a few common use cases for the Widget and how to implement them.
Sign in to SPA with Auth JS
: This guide will walk you through integrating authentication into a single-page app with the Auth JS SDK.
Configure Okta sign-on and app sign-on policies
: This guide explains how to add and configure Okta sign-on policies and app sign-on policies to your 
Okta organization
, and what the policies are used for.
Add multifactor authentication
: This guide explains how to implement multifactor authentication (MFA) and provides an example of how to use the Okta Factors API to add an additional factor for a user.
Self-service registration guides 
Set up self-service registration
: This guide explains how to set up Okta's self-service registration (SSR) functionality.
Registration inline hook
: This guide provides a working example of an Okta registration inline hook.
Upgrade from Okta Classic Engine to Okta Identity Engine 
If you are a Classic Engine customer who wants to upgrade their apps to use Identity Engine for authentication, go to 
Identity Engine upgrade overview
.
Edit This Page On GitHub
        On this page
Sign users in guides for Okta Classic Engine
Self-service registration guides
Upgrade from Okta Classic Engine to Okta Identity Engine
      Additional links
          Questions? Ask us on the
            forum.
          Contact & Legal
Contact our team
Contact sales
Developer Service terms
Site terms
Privacy policy
Copyright & trademarks
          More information
Integrate with Okta
Pricing
3rd-party notes
Auth0
Archive
OKTA.COM
Products, case studies, resources
HELP CENTER
Knowledgebase, roadmaps, and more
TRUST
System status, security, compliance
Copyright © 2025 Okta. All rights reserved.
Feedback