Best practices for password optional | Okta Developer
Community
Forum
Blog
Pricing
Okta Docs
Okta.com
Log in
      Sign up
      Instructions for
ASP.NET
Loading...
    On this page
            Add phone as an additional authenticator
Loading...
    Best practices for password optional
A list of recommended best practices for password-optional use cases using the Embedded SDK.
Add phone as an additional authenticator 
The 
Sign up for new account with email only
 and 
Sign in with email only
 guides show you how to integrate password-optional sign-in flows in your app using only email. These guides are primarily meant to be learning tools to help you understand how to integrate password-optional use cases in your app. In reality, however, user emails change, get lost, become compromised, and may not be accessible during authentication. In these scenarios, supporting another recovery authenticator along with email gives users a fallback option to sign in to your app and avoid user lockout.
The phone authenticator is a popular and recommended alternative authenticator because it's easy to deploy, quick and seamless to use, and familiar for most users. To learn how to integrate the phone authenticator in your app, see the phone enrollment steps in the 
Sign in with password and phone factors
 guide.
Protect your admin accounts 
Before you configure the password-optional experience, ensure that you continue to require valid two-factor authentication from your admin users. The Admin Console must remain accessible to your admin accounts.
Change the Admin Console authentication policy to require 
any two factors
 rather than a password plus another factor. Disabling the password authenticator before you do this locks your admins out of the Admin Console.
Create a separate group for admins and add your admin users to that group.
Create separate authenticator enrollment, global session, and authentication policies for this group. Each policy should require two non-password factors.
Place this group at the highest priority (at number one) in the authenticator enrollment policy.
Ensure that any existing account being promoted to an admin user has the required credentials already set up to access the Admin Console.
Edit This Page On GitHub
      Instructions for
ASP.NET
Loading...
        On this page
Add phone as an additional authenticator
Protect your admin accounts
      Additional links
          Questions? Ask us on the
            forum.
          Contact & Legal
Contact our team
Contact sales
Developer Service terms
Site terms
Privacy policy
Copyright & trademarks
          More information
Integrate with Okta
Pricing
3rd-party notes
Auth0
Archive
OKTA.COM
Products, case studies, resources
HELP CENTER
Knowledgebase, roadmaps, and more
TRUST
System status, security, compliance
Copyright © 2025 Okta. All rights reserved.
Feedback