How Okta works | Okta Developer
Community
Forum
Blog
Pricing
Okta Docs
Okta.com
Log in
      Sign up
    On this page
            What is Okta
Loading...
What is Okta 
Okta is a customizable, secure, and drop-in solution to add authentication and authorization services to your applications. Get scalable authentication built right into your application without the development overhead, security risks, and maintenance that come from building it yourself.
You can connect any application in any language or on any stack to Okta and define how you want your users to sign in. Each time a user tries to authenticate, Okta will verify their identity and send the required information back to your app.
Use our SDKs or API to connect your apps, add users, configure rules, customize your sign-in page, and then monitor your services from our built-in reports.
What you can do with Okta 
Take a look at just a few of Okta's use cases:
You built an app, and you want to add authentication and authorization 
You can use Okta to allow your users to sign in with a username/password or with their 
social accounts
, such as Google or Facebook using pre-built sign-in components from Okta. After the user has signed in, you can 
retrieve their user profile
 to customize the UI based on their role and apply your authorization policies.
You built an API, and you want to add authentication and authorization to it 
You can use Okta to 
secure your APIs
 and application backends so that only authorized users and applications can call them. Define 
scopes
, 
claims
, and 
configure policies
 to determine who can have access to your API resources.
You have more than one app, and you want to implement Single Sign-On (SSO) 
Use Okta to allow your users to 
sign in to other applications
 instead of requiring them to remember separate sets of credentials for each application or service. Users can simply sign in once and access your full suite of applications.
You want to enforce multifactor authentication (MFA) when your users want to access sensitive data 
Use Okta to 
enable a second level of security
 (SMS, Email, Voice, Biometrics, Okta Verify, and so on) for every sign in or 
configure policies
 to only enforce MFA based on location or network.
You want to federate your users using an existing enterprise directory 
Use Okta to allow users to sign in to the various internal and third-party applications using their existing enterprise credentials or through Active Directory (AD) or LDAP servers.
You have an app, and you want to manage the users that access your application 
Use Okta's UI to add or remove users, modify profile and authorization attributes, and to quickly troubleshoot user sign-in issues. Okta gives you one place to manage your users and user data. Users can be synced from a variety of services, third party apps, and user stores.
Edit This Page On GitHub
        On this page
What is Okta
What you can do with Okta
      Additional links
          Questions? Ask us on the
            forum.
          Contact & Legal
Contact our team
Contact sales
Developer Service terms
Site terms
Privacy policy
Copyright & trademarks
          More information
Integrate with Okta
Pricing
3rd-party notes
Auth0
Archive
OKTA.COM
Products, case studies, resources
HELP CENTER
Knowledgebase, roadmaps, and more
TRUST
System status, security, compliance
Copyright © 2025 Okta. All rights reserved.
Feedback