Security FAQs | Workato Docs
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
Get a trial
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
日本語
Get a trial
Orchestrate documentation
Workflow apps
Process automation
Insights
Workbot
Data orchestration
API platform
Event streams
Connectivity
Agentic documentation
Agentic
Agent Studio
Agent Studio use cases
Agent Studio security
Explore features
Getting started
Recipe design
AI features
Community library
Accessing On-prem
Troubleshooting
Organization & workspaces
Data & security
Lifecycle & operations
Connector SDK
Developer API
Embedded
Embedded API
Accelerators
Data & security
#
Security FAQs
Get answers to frequently asked security questions.
What is Workato's approach to security?
Workato has a comprehensive approach to
security
, including a complete security program with documented policies and procedures, verified by an annual audit, secure development and testing, a secure and scalable infrastructure, and product capabilities that enhance security.
Where can I find an overview of Workato's security practices?
Our
Workato Security Overview page
(opens new window)
provides an overview of Workato's security practices.
What are the essential features associated with access and authentication in Workato?
Workato offers the following
access and authentication features
:
Password policy enforcement
Session timeout
Two-factor authentication
Organizational separation
Separation of development, production, and testing environments
IP allowlists
TLS and HTTP standards
Single sign-on (SSO) using SAML 2.0 authentication
How does Workato enforce password policies?
Workato enforces
password
length, complexity, and expiration standards for user accounts. Workato does not store passwords and only stores secure hashes of passwords in our database.
Clients using password authentication are required to rotate their passwords every 90 days. Workato prohibits password reuse to further safeguard accounts.
How can organizations configure session timeouts in Workato?
Organizations can set a
session timeout duration
according to their security needs. The default session timeout duration is seven days, but it can be configured to range from 15 minutes to 14 days, depending on the organization’s security policy.
Users can update their timeout duration by navigating to
Workspace admin > Settings > General > Session timeout duration
.
What two-factor authentication options are supported by Workato?
Workato supports the following
two-factor authentication
mobile apps:
Google Authenticator
Microsoft Authenticator
Authy
How does Workato ensure organizational separation within its platform?
Admins can
configure separate workspaces
for different teams or business functions. This ensures that users can only access the resources of the workspace to which they are assigned.
What does "separation of environments" in Workato mean?
Workato supports a multi-phase development lifecycle, allowing development, testing, and production activities to occur in
separate environments
and by different users. The Environments feature is available to customers on specific pricing plans.
What single sign-on (SSO) options does Workato support?
Workato supports integration with third-party SAML-compliant SSO systems and offers single sign-on using third-party credentials. Refer to the
SSO documentation
for a complete list of SSO options.
How does Workato handle user provisioning and authorization to minimize data exposure?
Workato follows the
principle of least privilege
through a role-based access control (RBAC) model when provisioning system access.
Workspace admins use RBAC to assign collaborators to projects and folders, grant permissions, and pre-configured system roles (Admin, Operator, Analyst) based on their tasks. You can also configure custom roles to control access to specific features, projects, folders, and more on a granular level.
How does Workato handle connections to external systems securely?
When connecting to
external systems
, Workato uses OAuth 2.0 whenever possible. If credentials must be stored, they are encrypted using a 256-bit key. Custom OAuth profiles can be created for greater control.
How is data protected within Workato?
All
data
stored in Workato is encrypted in transit and at rest using a strong encryption algorithm (AES-256). Data retention, data masking, and data privacy measures are in place to protect sensitive information.
Workato stores transaction-related data for a limited period based on the Workato plan, allowing system activity visibility, testing, debugging, and support for long-running transactions.
Can Workato employees see my recipe data or job details?
No. Workato employees, including engineers, do not have access to your recipe job details, data, or execution logs, even if a job ID or URL is shared.
Shared job and recipe IDs are primarily used for troubleshooting and debugging within our internal platform logs, where error information is stored. Access to recipe and job data is strictly controlled and remains within your environment.
All data in Workato is encrypted in transit and at rest. Encrypted data cannot be accessed by Workato staff.
How is encryption key management handled in Workato?
Workato uses a hierarchical key model for
encryption key management
with different levels of keys to limit access and exposure. The Customer Main Key (CMK) is at the top of the hierarchy.
Can Workato's encryption keys be managed using third-party services?
Workato supports
Enterprise Key Management
(EKM) that allows users to manage their workspace's encryption keys with the help of external key management services.
What is the role of Secrets Management in Workato?
Secrets Management
allows you to securely store and retrieve sensitive information like passwords and API tokens. It centralizes credential management, improving security and ease of management.
Workato's Secrets Management feature supports the following secrets managers:
AWS Secrets Manager
HashiCorp Vault
Azure Key Vault
You can configure secrets management at either the workspace or project level in Workato. Workato does not support a mixed approach to secrets management.
What security compliance standards does Workato comply with?
Workato maintains the following security compliance certifications:
PCI-DSS v4.0.1 − Level 1
: Secure cardholder data.
ISO 27001 & 27701
: Information and privacy management aligned with global standards.
SOC 1 and SOC 2 Type II
: Audited controls for financial and security integrity.
HIPAA
: Healthcare data protection, with Business Associate Agreements (BAAs) available.
Refer to
Security compliance certifications
for more information.
←
Hosting editions FAQs
Data retention
→
Last updated:
4/21/2025, 7:49:41 PM
Product
How it works
Pricing
What's New
Recipes
Security
Documentation
Product blog
Solutions
HR
Sales
Marketing
Finance
Support
IT
Product (Embed)
Higher Ed
Revenue Operations
Resources
Docs
Customer Success
Content Library
Systematic Community
Workato for Slack
Workato for Microsoft Teams
Use cases
Product Led Sales
Order to Cash
Employee Onboarding
Embedded Integrations
Enterprise iPaaS
IT Help Desk
All use cases >
Applications
Salesforce
Slack
Marketo
NetSuite
ServiceNow
Workday
All Apps >
Company
About us
Customers
Blog
Press
Careers
Partners
Events
© Workato 2025
Privacy
Legal
Sitemap
Contact: (844) 469-6752
The trademarks WORKATO®, WORKBOT® and WORK JAM® are registered in U.S. Patent & Trademark Office to Workato,
Inc.