Set data exchange options | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Set data exchange options
External services and apps can exchange data with your 
Okta Workflows
 cards using either polling or webhook methods.
Polling monitors
Poling monitor events query an external service or app for new data records on a defined schedule.
To launch the polling options dialog, click 
Run mode
 from the 
Other options
 menu on any polling event card.
You can choose from three options for when to execute the flow:
Option
Description
Each record
This is the default mode.
Your flow executes once for each new record returned from the external service.
For example, if your flow starts with a 
Salesforce
New Record
 event card, it polls 
Salesforce
 according to the interval you set and checks for new records. If 
Salesforce
 added three new records since the last check, then the flow runs three separate times, once for each new record. However, if no new records were added, then the flow doesn't execute.
No New Data
Your flow executes only if your polling event returns no records that match your specified criteria.
For example, you could set your flow to check daily at 9:00 to see if 
Salesforce
 has added any new leads since yesterday. If you select the 
No New Data
 option, the flow only executes if there are no new leads.
Every time
Your flow executes every time it checks the external service.
For example, if your polling event checks a spreadsheet every hour for new rows, the flow executes every hour. While the 
Each record
 option returns and processes data for a single row, with the 
Every time
 option, your flow receives a list with the data for all new rows. If there are no new rows, the returned list is empty.
This option gives you the most flexibility around actions to take. For example, your flow could execute different actions depending on the number of spreadsheet rows added during the elapsed hour, or what to do if there are no changes reported.
Each flow tracks its own polling of the external service, independently from other flows. This means you can have multiple flows looking at the same events: 
A flow that checks every 15 minutes for new items
A flow that runs if there are no new items during the previous 24 hours
A flow that runs at the end of every week to get all new items for that week
Webhooks
To launch the webhook options dialog, click 
Run mode
 from the 
Options
 menu on any webhook event card.
You can run webhook events with two different options: 
Option
Description
Each record
This is the default mode.
Your flow executes once for each new record received from the external service.
For example, the 
New Row - Webhook
 event card for 
Smartsheet
 notifies the flow when a 
Smartsheet
 sheet is saved with new rows.
List of records
Your flow executes once using a batched list of all new records.
For example, your flow would receive all 
User Profile Updated
 events from 
Okta
 as a single list of events, rather than having each event trigger a separate flow execution.
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback