Workato connectors - Google Drive - New CSV file trigger | Workato Docs
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
Get a trial
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
日本語
Get a trial
Orchestrate documentation
Workflow apps
Process automation
Insights
Workbot
Data orchestration
API platform
Event streams
Connectivity
Agentic documentation
Agentic
Agent Studio
Agent Studio use cases
Agent Studio security
Explore features
Getting started
Recipe design
AI features
Community library
Accessing On-prem
Troubleshooting
Organization & workspaces
Data & security
Lifecycle & operations
Connector SDK
Developer API
Embedded
Embedded API
Accelerators
Connectivity
App connectors
Google Drive
#
Google Drive - New CSV file trigger (batch)
This trigger checks a specified folder for new CSV files every 5 minutes and processes the CSV lines in batches of 1000 by default. The maximum batch size is 1000.
The trigger does not pick up newly uploaded versions of the same file.
Google Drive New CSV file trigger
#
Input
Input field
Description
When first started, this recipe should pick up events from
When you start the recipe for the first time, it picks up activity from the specified date and time. Defaults to fetching activity an hour ago if left blank. After the recipe has been run or tested, the value cannot be changed. Learn more about this
input field
.
Parent folder
The parent folder where the file is placed. Select a folder from the picklist or enter the folder ID directly. You can find the folder ID at the end of the folder URL. If entering the folder ID for a shared drive (formerly Team Drive), this value must be in the form
folder_id/shared_drive_id
(for example,
1fm6iCMYrN7roZZ-ynpVFRTVq9mellrWp/0AB6ZFCw3XdamUk9PAA
).
The uploaded file is saved in My Drive if this field is not specified.
Sample CSV file
Required for Workato to understand the data columns in your files. If you do not have a sample CSV file to upload, enter column names manually, with each name on a new line. This is used to build output column fields.
Column delimiter
The character used to separate column values within each CSV line.
Contains header line?
Set to
Yes
if the first CSV line is a header line containing column names that must be excluded in the output.
Batch size
Number of CSV rows per batch. Instead of reading rows one by one, Workato reads a batch of CSV rows at the same time to increase throughput. Refer to
Batch processing
for more information. Defaults to
1000
, which is the maximum batch size.
Expected encoding
The expected file encoding type. Defaults to
UTF-8
, and typically doesn't need to be changed.
#
Output
Input field
Description
Events
Details about the new CSV file in Google Drive. Contains the following output fields:
ID: ID of the file.
Name: Name of the file.
MIME type: MIME type of the file, as stated in
Google Drive's documentation
(opens new window)
.
Description: Description of the file.
Starred: Whether you have starred the file.
Trashed: Whether the file has been trashed, either explicitly or from a trashed parent folder. Only the owner can trash a file. Other users cannot see files in the owner's trash.
Explicitly trashed: Indicates whether the file has been explicitly trashed, as opposed to recursively trashed from a parent folder (for example, when you trash an entire parent folder).
Parents: List of parent folders containing the file. Contains the following output fields, in addition to
List size
and
List index
:
ID: ID of the parent folder.
Version
A version number for the file. This reflects every change made to the file on the server, even those not visible to the user.
Web content link: A link for downloading the content of the file in a browser. This is only available for files with binary content in Google Drive.
Web view link: A link for opening the file in a relevant Google editor or viewer in a browser.
Icon link: A static, unauthenticated link to the file's icon.
Thumbnail link: A short-lived link to the file's thumbnail, if available. Typically lasts on the order of hours. Only populated when the requesting app can access the file's content.
Viewed by me: Whether the file has been viewed by this user.
Viewed by me time: The last time the file was viewed by this user (RFC 3339 date-time).
Created time: The time at which the file was created (RFC 3339 date-time).
Modified time: The last time the file was modified by anyone (RFC 3339 date-time).
Modified by me time: The last time the file was modified by this user (RFC 3339 date-time).
Sharing user
The user who shared the file with the requesting user, if applicable. Each user contains the following output fields:
Display name: A plain text displayable name for this user.
Email address: The email address of the user. This may not be present in certain contexts if the user has not made their email address visible to the requester.
Permission ID: The user's ID as visible in Permission resources.
Photo link: A link to the user's profile photo, if available.
Me: Whether this user is the requesting user.
Owners
The list of owners of the file. Only certain legacy files can have more than one owner. This field is not populated for shared drive files. Each owner contains the following fields, in addition to
List size
and
List index
:
Display name: A plain text displayable name for this user.
Email address: The email address of the user. This may not be present in certain contexts if the user has not made their email address visible to the requester.
Permission ID: The user's ID as visible in Permission resources.
Photo link: A link to the user's profile photo, if available.
Me: Whether this user is the requesting user.
Last modifying user
The last user to modify the file. Each user contains the following output fields:
Display name: A plain text displayable name for this user.
Email address: The email address of the user. This may not be present in certain contexts if the user has not made their email address visible to the requester.
Permission ID: The user's ID as visible in Permission resources.
Photo link: A link to the user's profile photo, if available.
Me: Whether this user is the requesting user.
Shared
Indicates whether the file has been shared. This field is not populated for shared drive files.
Owned by me
Indicates whether the user owns the file. This field isn't populated for shared drive files.
Viewers can copy content
Indicates whether users with
View
access can copy the file contents.
Writers can share
Indicates whether users with
Edit
access can share the file. This field is not populated for shared drive files.
Original filename
The original filename of the file if available, or else the original value of the name field. This is only available for files with binary content in Google Drive.
Full file extension
The full file extension extracted from the name field. May contain multiple concatenated extensions (for example,
tar.gz
). This is only available for files with binary content in Google Drive. It is automatically updated when the name field changes, but it is not cleared if the new name does not contain a valid extension.
File extension
The final component of the full file extension (for example,
gz
.) This is only available for files with binary content in Google Drive.
MD5 checksum
The MD5 checksum for the content of the file. This is only applicable to files with binary content in Google Drive.
Size
The size of the file's content in bytes. This is only applicable to files with binary content in Google Drive.
Quota bytes used
The number of storage quota bytes used by the file. This includes the head revision as well as previous revisions with
Keep Forever
(opens new window)
enabled.
Head revision ID
The ID of the file's most current version. This is only available for files with binary content in Google Drive.
←
New activity trigger
New file/folder trigger
→
Last updated:
3/10/2025, 6:11:59 PM
On this page
Input
Output
Product
How it works
Pricing
What's New
Recipes
Security
Documentation
Product blog
Solutions
HR
Sales
Marketing
Finance
Support
IT
Product (Embed)
Higher Ed
Revenue Operations
Resources
Docs
Customer Success
Content Library
Systematic Community
Workato for Slack
Workato for Microsoft Teams
Use cases
Product Led Sales
Order to Cash
Employee Onboarding
Embedded Integrations
Enterprise iPaaS
IT Help Desk
All use cases >
Applications
Salesforce
Slack
Marketo
NetSuite
ServiceNow
Workday
All Apps >
Company
About us
Customers
Blog
Press
Careers
Partners
Events
© Workato 2025
Privacy
Legal
Sitemap
Contact: (844) 469-6752
The trademarks WORKATO®, WORKBOT® and WORK JAM® are registered in U.S. Patent & Trademark Office to Workato,
Inc.