Compare | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Compare
Run a simple true or false test. For instance, you might check to see if a 
Type
 field is equal to "Customer" or if a 
Price
 field is greater than 1000.
Input Fields
value a
: the value to be compared
comparison
: what comparison to make (see table below)
value b
: the value to compare against
IMPORTANT: Be sure to set the type of 
value a
 and 
value b
 to reflect how you would like the comparison to be done. For instance, the operator "greater than" compares numbers based on numeric value but text based on alphabetical sort order. So the number comparison 80 > 9 is true, but the text comparison "80" > "9" is false.
Output Fields
result
: the result of the conditional statement, either true or false
Table of Relational Operators
Operator
Use Case
equal to
Compare two texts, numbers, dates or true/false to see if they have the same value.
not equal 
Compare two texts, numbers, dates or true/false to see if they have different values. To compare objects, use this option instead of 
doesn't have key
.
greater than or equal
Compare two texts, numbers or dates to see if the first has the same or greater value than the second.
less than or equal
Compare two texts, numbers or dates to see if the first has the same or lesser value than the second.
greater than
Compare two texts, numbers or dates to see if the first has a greater value than the second.
less than
Compare two texts, numbers or dates to see if the first has a lesser value than the second.
a multiple of
Compare two numbers to see if value a is an exact multiple of value b. For example, 12, 0 and -4 are all multiples of 4, but 2, 3 and 7 are not.
in
Compare two texts to see if value a is a part of value b. For example, "test" is in "this is a test", but there is no "i" in "team".
not in
Compare two texts to see if value a is not part of value b.
has key
When value a is an object and value b is text, tests to see if the object has a key with the specified name. For example, true if value a is {"test":123} and value b is "test".
doesn't have key
When value a is an object and value b is text, tests to see if the object does not have a key with the specified name.
is empty
Checks to see if value a is empty; ignores value b. Definition of "empty" varies by type. Note: Only works for Text and Object. Numbers, Dates, T/F, are viewed as empty.
is not empty
Checks to see if value a is not empty. Note: Only works for Text and Object. Numbers, Dates, T/F, are viewed as empty.
Related topics
Functions
Workflow elements
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback