Troubleshooting - Webhook Rate Limits | Workato Docs
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
Get a trial
/
docs
Product Updates
Status Page
Automation Institute
English
日本語
Get a trial
Orchestrate documentation
Workflow apps
Process automation
Insights
Workbot
Data orchestration
API platform
Event streams
Connectivity
Agentic documentation
Agentic
Agent Studio
Agent Studio use cases
Agent Studio security
Explore features
Getting started
Recipe design
AI features
Community library
Accessing On-prem
Troubleshooting
Organization & workspaces
Data & security
Lifecycle & operations
Connector SDK
Developer API
Embedded
Embedded API
Accelerators
Troubleshooting
#
Webhook gateway limits
When you use a real-time trigger, a webhooks connector, or build a webhook trigger on the connector SDK, events are sent to the webhook gateway before becoming jobs. Workato's webhook gateway enforces two limits at the
Workspace level
:
Rate limits
The number of events you can send in a given time interval.
Byte limits
The total memory size of webhook events allowed in a specific time interval.
#
Rate limits
The webhook gateway uses rate limits to manage event processing efficiently. The following limits apply per environment, such as Dev, Test, or Prod:
Steady rate
: 20 events per second, equivalent to 72,000 events per hour.
Burst allowance
: 1,000 events that can be processed beyond the steady rate in a burst.
#
Leaky bucket rate limiting
The webhook gateway uses a
leaky bucket approach
with the following process:
If you receive
more than 20 events
in a second, the excess events consume your burst allowance.
If you receive
fewer than 20 events
in a second, the remaining capacity refills your burst allowance, but only if the burst allowance is less than 1,000 events.
BURST ALLOWANCE REFILL LIMIT
The burst allowance does not refill if it has already reached the maximum limit of 1,000 events.
If you exceed both the steady rate (20 events per second) and the burst allowance (1,000 events), the webhook gateway returns a
429 Too Many Requests
response for additional events until the rate falls within the limit.
HANDLING 429 RESPONSES
The webhook gateway sends
429
responses to maintain stability for all customers. The best practice for handling
429
responses is to retry webhooks until they are accepted.
Learn more about handling 429 responses.
#
Example scenarios
The following scenarios demonstrate how the webhook gateway processes different amounts of events:
#
Scenario 1: 25 events in one second
When you receive 25 events in one second, the webhook gateway processes 20 events within the steady rate. The remaining 5 events consume part of your burst allowance.
#
Scenario 2: 10 events in one second
If you receive 10 events in one second, the gateway processes all 10 events. The unused capacity (10 events) refills your burst allowance, provided it hasn’t reached the maximum limit.
#
Scenario 3: 1,050 events in one second
In this scenario, you receive 1,050 events in one second. The gateway processes 20 events at the steady rate, and the next 1,000 events deplete your entire burst allowance. The remaining 30 events result in a
429 Too Many Requests
response, as both the steady rate and burst allowance are exceeded.
#
Byte limits
Our webhook gateway has the following byte limits, which represents the total memory in all your webhooks:
30MB per minute
30MB in a burst
You can imagine the byte limits per minute and burst in the same way as the rate limits.
HANDLING 429 RESPONSES
429 requests are meant to preserve the stability of our webhook gateway for all customers. Industry best practices for 429s are to retry webhooks until they are eventually accepted.
In high volume scenarios, webhook gateway limits may be adjusted on a per-customer basis and subject to commercial terms and approval.
Learn more about handling 429 responses.
#
Rate limit revisions
We understand that each business has unique event processing needs. Our goal is to support your objectives by offering flexible rate limits tailored to your specific requirements.
For existing customers, we recognize that some may have higher rate limits based on earlier versions of our documentation, including a steady rate of 20 events per second and a burst allowance of 18,000 events. We remain committed to honoring these higher limits. Any changes to your rate limits are communicated in advance.
If the standard rate limits do not meet your requirements, we encourage you to contact our support team to discuss potential adjustments. We work with you to ensure that your usage aligns with your business objectives while maintaining platform stability.
#
Additional information for embedded partners
For Embedded Partners using our shared connectors feature to distribute connectors to their customers, static webhook triggers in your customer workspaces have their own separate webhook rate limits. For example, webhook events to Customer A's workspace will not be counted to Customer B's workspace webhook rate limits.
#
Handling situations when your Webhook Gateway limits are exceeded
When you exceed your rate limits, Workato's webhook gateway responds with 429 errors. In addition to this, Workato's webhook gateway responds to every event with 5 headers that help you understand when you can successfully send your next event.
Retry-After
- How many seconds to retry the same webhook before it will be accepted
X-Rate-Limit-Remaining
- How many events that can be sent before 429s will be returned
X-Rate-Limit-Reset
- How many seconds before your event burst allowance is refilled
X-Byte-Limit-Remaining
- How much cumulative data across all webhooks that can be sent before 429s are returned
X-Byte-Limit-Reset
- How many seconds before your Byte burst allowance is refilled
Your API can use these headers to understand how and when to throttle webhook events.
←
422 Unprocessable entity
OPA no profile found
→
Last updated:
1/31/2025, 9:09:46 PM
On this page
Rate limits
Byte limits
Rate limit revisions
Additional information for embedded partners
Handling situations when your Webhook Gateway limits are exceeded
Product
How it works
Pricing
What's New
Recipes
Security
Documentation
Product blog
Solutions
HR
Sales
Marketing
Finance
Support
IT
Product (Embed)
Higher Ed
Revenue Operations
Resources
Docs
Customer Success
Content Library
Systematic Community
Workato for Slack
Workato for Microsoft Teams
Use cases
Product Led Sales
Order to Cash
Employee Onboarding
Embedded Integrations
Enterprise iPaaS
IT Help Desk
All use cases >
Applications
Salesforce
Slack
Marketo
NetSuite
ServiceNow
Workday
All Apps >
Company
About us
Customers
Blog
Press
Careers
Partners
Events
© Workato 2025
Privacy
Legal
Sitemap
Contact: (844) 469-6752
The trademarks WORKATO®, WORKBOT® and WORK JAM® are registered in U.S. Patent & Trademark Office to Workato,
Inc.