Workflow elements | Okta Workflows
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Workflow elements
A flow is a combined sequence of individual steps consisting of the events, logic, and actions for a particular use case.
Flow cards
Steps in a flow move from left to right, and are visually represented as cards inside your flow builder view. 
The first card in any flow is an event, representing the trigger that begins your flow. Events can be scheduled, on-demand, or triggered by a change within your external application or service.
Action cards instruct your flow to send commands to applications. 
Okta
 develops these action cards with the external application or service owner.
Function cards enable you to manipulate data formats and flow structures. These are necessary because activity from cards may return results in different formats or, sometimes, return an error. Action cards can't account for all these different scenarios. Function cards let you manipulate the data returned from a card, deal with error conditions, or change the flow structure to another logical path. 
How flows work
A flow links the triggering event   and the resulting actions using connectors and mapped input and output values.
Connectors are the individual applications that compose your flow. Connectors interact with external applications or services through a connection. In this example, the flow uses a 
Box
 connector.
Connections are a uniquely configured relation to the external applications or services endpoints. The connection handles the authentication and authorization and doesn't require you to query the API directly. In this example, there's a properly configured connection to the 
Box
 service.
Inputs fields determine how an action or function card proceeds. For example, the input field of the 
Search Users
 action card is 
Email
.
Output fields contain the results generated by the event, action, or function card. In the example flow, the 
Search Users
 card produces output values such as 
User ID
, 
Role
, and 
Name
. 
The sharing of data from one card to one (or more) subsequent cards is called mapping. To map data between cards, you drag and drop the output field of one card to the input field of another card. The 
User ID
 output field  maps to both the 
value a
 input field on the 
Continue If
 function card, and the 
User ID
 input field on the 
Deactivate User
 action card.
The format of an output field and any mapped input fields must match.
Optional elements
You can add note cards inside your flow to explain the flow or set reminders. Notes can be added between events, actions, or functions without affecting the run-time process.
You can also duplicate cards within your flow if you need to have multiple cards with slightly different inputs.
A template is  a flow, or collection of flows, created by 
Okta
 that demonstrates a particular use case. You can copy a template and modify the flows within it to meet your needs with minimal configuration changes. 
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback