Get started | Okta Identity Engine
Skip To Main Content
Account
Settings
Logout
placeholder
Account
Settings
Logout
Filter: 
All Files
Submit Search
oktaproduction9ounvcxa
https://platform.cloud.coveo.com/rest/search
https://support.okta.com/help/s/global-search/%40uri
https://support.okta.com/help/services/apexrest/PublicSearchToken?site=help
oktanonproduction1il1gtac7
https://qo2dt8ecve.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/token?site=help
Documentation 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Release notes 
Identity Engine
Classic Engine
Access Gateway
Advanced Server Access
Workflows
Identity Security Posture Management
Okta Developer
Auth0
Training
Support
Get started
Okta Identity Engine
 allows organizations to customize their Okta cloud components and satisfy an unlimited number of identity use cases. Instead of relying on predefined behavior for identification, authorization, and enrollment, 
Identity Engine
 offers customizable building blocks that can support dynamic, app-based user journeys.
To access the docs from the Admin Console, click the help link on any page or the help icon next to your username. If you're not sure which solution you're using, check the footer on any page of the Admin Console. The version number is appended with E for 
Identity Engine
 orgs and C for 
Classic Engine
 orgs. 
Configuration tasks
Follow this sequence of configuration tasks to start using 
Identity Engine
.
                        Task
                        Description
User management
Every user has a unique profile within Okta. You can manage users in groups or individually.
CSV directory integration
Integrate directories like Active Directory (AD) or Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP).
Administrators
Assign admins to maintain all aspects of the  user experience in your orgs.
Get started with app integrations
Configure apps for your org.  SSO setup docs for many apps are available from the Admin Console.
Okta Browser Plugin 
Configure the Okta Browser Plugin so your users can automatically sign in to applications.
Integration guides
Configure the parameters of your app integrations, and then assign them to groups or individual users in your org.
Sign-on policies and rules
Set a global session policy and  
authentication policies
. 
Identity Engine
 requires that the assurance  in these policies is satisfied before the end user  accesses an app.
Multifactor authentication
Enable the authenticators that your users must provide for verification  by an application or service.
Risk scoring
Risk Scoring uses a risk engine that determines the likelihood of an anomalous sign-in event.
Network Zones
Network Zones define security perimeters around in which you can restrict or limit user access to your org.               
ThreatInsight
ThreatInsight aggregates data across the Okta customer base and uses this data to detect malicious IP addresses that attempt credential-based attacks.
Devices and Okta FastPass
Deploy 
Okta Verify
 to devices, integrate 
Okta Verify
 with your EDR solution, manage the device lifecycle state, and configure 
Okta FastPass
.                   
Monitoring and reports
Learn how Okta reports and System Log queries help you detect potential security risks and understand how users consume your apps and service.
©  
2025
Okta, Inc
. All Rights Reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
Feedback